ne hundred thirty-six days before THE WEEK BEFORE I left my family and Florida and the rest of my minor life to go to boarding school in Alabama, my mother insisted on throwing me a going-away party. To say that I had low expecta-tions would be to underestimate the matter dramatically. Although I was more or less forced to invite all my “school friends,” i.e., the ragtag bunch of drama people and English geeks I sat with by social necessity  in  the  cavernous  cafeteria  of  my  public  school,  I  knew they wouldn’t come. Still, my mother persevered, awash in the delu-sion  that  I  had  kept  my  popularity  secret  from  her  all  these  years. She  cooked  a  small  mountain  of  artichoke  dip.  She  festooned  our living  room  in  green  and  yellow  streamers,  the  colors  of  my  new school. She bought two dozen champagne poppers and placed them around the edge of our coffee table. And when that final Friday came, when my packing was mostly done,  she  sat  with  my  dad  and  me  on  the  living-room  couch  at 4:56 P.M. and patiently awaited the arrival of the Good-bye to Miles 
LOOKING FOR ALASKA Cavalry.  Said  cavalry  consisted  of  exactly  two  people:  Marie  Law-son, a tiny blonde with rectangular glasses, and her chunky (to put it charitably) boyfriend, Will. “Hey, Miles,” Marie said as she sat down. “Hey,” I said. “How was your summer?” Will asked. “Okay. Yours?” “Good.  We  did Jesus  Christ  Superstar.  I  helped  with  the  sets. Marie did lights,” said Will. “That’s cool.” I nodded knowingly, and that about exhausted our conversational  topics.  I  might  have  asked  a  question  about Jesus Christ Superstar, except that 1. I didn’t know what it was, and 2. I didn’t care to learn, and 3. I never really excelled at small talk. My mom,  however,  can  talk  small  for  hours,  and  so  she  extended  the awkwardness  by  asking  them  about  their  rehearsal  schedule,  and how the show had gone, and whether it was a success. “I  guess  it  was,”  Marie  said.  “A  lot  of  people  came,  I  guess.” Marie was the sort of person to guess a lot. Finally, Will said, “Well, we just dropped by to say good-bye. I’ve got to get Marie home by six. Have fun at boarding school, Miles.” “Thanks,” I answered, relieved. The only thing worse than hav-ing  a  party  that  no  one  attends  is  having  a  party  attended  only  by two vastly, deeply uninteresting people. They left, and so I sat with my parents and stared at the blank TV and wanted to turn it on but knew I shouldn’t. I could feel them both looking at me, waiting for me to burst into tears or something, as  if  I  hadn’t  known  all  along  that  it  would  go  precisely  like  this. But I had known. I could feel their pity as they scooped artichoke dip with chips intended for my imaginary friends, but they needed pity  more  than  I  did:  I  wasn’t  disappointed.  My  expectations  had been met. “Is this why you want to leave, Miles?” Mom asked. 
