LOOKING FOR ALASKA one hundred twenty-eight days before FLORIDA  WAS  PLENTY  HOT, certainly,  and  humid,  too.  Hot enough that your clothes stuck to you like Scotch tape, and sweat dripped like tears from your forehead into your eyes. But it was only hot outside, and generally I only went outside to walk from one air-conditioned location to another. This  did  not  prepare  me  for  the  unique  sort  of  heat  that  one encounters fifteen miles south of Birmingham, Alabama, at Culver Creek Preparatory School. My parents’ SUV was parked in the grass just a few feet outside my dorm room, Room 43. But each time I took  those  few  steps  to  and  from  the  car  to  unload  what  now seemed like far too much stuff, the sun burned through my clothes and  into  my  skin  with  a  vicious  ferocity  that  made  me  genuinely fear hellfire. Between  Mom  and  Dad  and  me,  it  only  took  a  few  minutes  to unload  the  car,  but  my  unair-conditioned  dorm  room,  although blessedly out of the sunshine, was only modestly cooler. The room surprised me: I’d pictured plush carpet, wood-paneled walls, Victo-rian furniture. Aside from one luxury—a private bathroom—I got a box. With cinder-block walls coated thick with layers of white paint and  a  green-and-white-checkered  linoleum  floor,  the  place  looked more  like  a  hospital  than  the  dorm  room  of  my  fantasies. A  bunk bed  of  unfinished  wood  with  vinyl  mattresses  was  pushed  against the  room’s  back  window.  The  desks  and  dressers  and  bookshelves were all attached to the walls in order to prevent creative floor plan-ning. And no air-conditioning. I sat on the lower bunk while Mom opened the trunk, grabbed a stack of the biographies my dad had agreed to part with, and placed them on the bookshelves. “I can unpack, Mom,” I said. My dad stood. He was ready to go. “Let me at least make your bed,” Mom said. “No,  really.  I  can  do  it.  It’s  okay.”  Because  you  simply  cannot 
7 draw these things out forever. At some point, you just pull off the Band-Aid and it hurts, but then it’s over and you’re relieved. “God, we’ll miss you,” Mom said suddenly, stepping through the minefield of suitcases to get to the bed. I stood and hugged her. My dad  walked  over,  too,  and  we  formed  a  sort  of  huddle.  It  was  too hot, and we were too sweaty, for the hug to last terribly long. I knew I ought to cry, but I’d lived with my parents for sixteen years, and a trial separation seemed overdue. “Don’t worry.” I smiled. “I’s a-gonna learn how t’talk right South-ern.” Mom laughed. “Don’t do anything stupid,” my dad said. “Okay.” “No drugs. No drinking. No cigarettes.” As an alumnus of Cul-ver  Creek,  he  had  done  the  things  I  had  only  heard  about:  the secret parties, streaking through hay fields (he always whined about how  it  was  all  boys  back  then),  drugs,  drinking,  and  cigarettes.  It had  taken  him  a  while  to  kick  smoking,  but  his  badass  days  were now well behind him. “I love you,” they both blurted out simultaneously. It needed to be  said,  but  the  words  made  the  whole  thing  horribly  uncomfort-able, like watching your grandparents kiss. “I love you, too. I’ll call every Sunday.” Our rooms had no phone lines, but my parents had requested I be placed in a room near one of Culver Creek’s five pay phones. They hugged me again—Mom, then Dad—and it was over. Out the back window, I watched them drive the winding road off cam-pus. I should have felt a gooey, sentimental sadness, perhaps. But mostly I just wanted to cool off, so I grabbed one of the desk chairs and  sat  down  outside  my  door  in  the  shade  of  the  overhanging eaves, waiting for a breeze that never arrived. The air outside sat as still and oppressive as the air inside. I stared out over my new digs: Six  one-story  buildings,  each  with  sixteen  dorm  rooms,  were 
LOOKING FOR ALASKA arranged in a hexagram around a large circle of grass. It looked like an  oversize  old  motel.  Everywhere,  boys  and  girls  hugged  and smiled  and  walked  together.  I  vaguely  hoped  that  someone  would come up and talk to me. I imagined the conversation: “Hey. Is this your first year?”“Yeah. Yeah. I’m from Florida.”“That’s cool. So you’re used to the heat.”“I wouldn’t be used to this heat if I were from Hades,” I’d joke.I’d  make  a  good  first  impression. Oh,  he’s  funny.  That  guy  Miles  is a riot. That  didn’t  happen,  of  course.  Things  never  happened  like  I imagined them. Bored,  I  went  back  inside,  took  off  my  shirt,  lay  down  on  the heat-soaked vinyl of the lower bunk mattress, and closed my eyes. I’d  never  been  born  again  with  the  baptism  and  weeping  and  all that, but it couldn’t feel much better than being born again as a guy with no known past. I thought of the people I’d read about—John F. Kennedy,  James  Joyce,  Humphrey  Bogart—who  went  to  board-ing  school,  and  their  adventures—Kennedy,  for  example,  loved pranks.  I  thought  of  the  Great  Perhaps  and  the  things  that  might happen and the people I might meet and who my roommate might be  (I’d  gotten  a  letter  a  few  weeks  before  that  gave  me  his  name, Chip  Martin,  but  no  other  information).  Whoever  Chip  Martin was,  I  hoped  to  God  he  would  bring  an  arsenal  of  high-powered fans, because I hadn’t packed even one, and I could already feel my sweat pooling on the vinyl mattress, which disgusted me so much that I stopped thinking and got off my ass to find a towel to wipe up the sweat with. And then I thought, Well, before the adventure comes the unpacking. I managed to tape a map of the world to the wall and get most of my  clothes  into  drawers  before  I  noticed  that  the  hot,  moist  air made  even  the  walls  sweat,  and  I  decided  that  now  was  not  the 
