LOOKING FOR ALASKA I  laughed  and  nodded  my  head  at  him  (that’s  cool,  right?  the nod?) and said, “I’m Miles Halter. Nice to meet you.” “Miles, as in ‘to go before I sleep’?” he asked me. “Huh?” “It’s a Robert Frost poem. You’ve never read him?” I shook my head no. “Consider yourself lucky.” He smiled. I  grabbed  some  clean  underwear,  a  pair  of  blue Adidas  soccer shorts, and a white T-shirt, mumbled that I’d be back in a second, and  ducked  back  into  the  bathroom.  So  much  for  a  good  first impression. “So where are your parents?” I asked from the bathroom. “My parents? The father’s in California right now. Maybe sitting in his La-Z-Boy. Maybe driving his truck. Either way, he’s drinking. My mother is probably just now turning off campus.” “Oh,” I said, dressed now, not sure how to respond to such per-sonal information. I shouldn’t have asked, I guess, if I didn’t want to know. Chip grabbed some sheets and tossed them onto the top bunk. “I’m a top bunk man. Hope that doesn’t bother you.” “Uh, no. Whatever is fine.” “I see you’ve decorated the place,” he said, gesturing toward the world map. “I like it.” And then he started naming countries. He spoke in a monotone, as if he’d done it a thousand times before. Afghanistan. Albania. Algeria. American Samoa. Andorra. And so on. He got through the A’s before looking up and notic-ing my incredulous stare. 
11 “I  could  do  the  rest,  but  it’d  probably  bore  you.  Something  I learned over the summer. God, you can’t imagine how boring New Hope,  Alabama,  is  in  the  summertime.  Like  watching  soybeans grow. Where are you from, by the way?” “Florida,” I said. “Never been.” “That’s pretty amazing, the countries thing,” I said. “Yeah, everybody’s got a talent. I can memorize things. And you can . . . ?” “Um, I know a lot of people’s last words.” It was an indulgence, learning last words. Other people had chocolate; I had dying decla-rations. “Example?” “I like Henrik Ibsen’s. He was a playwright.” I knew a lot about Ibsen, but I’d never read any of his plays. I didn’t like reading plays. I liked reading biographies. “Yeah, I know who he was,” said Chip. “Right, well, he’d been sick for a while and his nurse said to him, ‘You seem to be feeling better this morning,’ and Ibsen looked at her and said, ‘On the contrary,’ and then he died.” Chip laughed. “That’s morbid. But I like it.” He told me he was in his third year at Culver Creek. He had started in ninth grade, the first year at the school, and was now a junior like me. A scholarship kid, he said. Got a full ride. He’d heard it was the best school in Alabama, so he wrote his application essay about how he wanted to go to a school where he could read long books. The prob-lem, he said in the essay, was that his dad would always hit him with the books in his house, so Chip kept his books short and paperback for  his  own  safety.  His  parents  got  divorced  his  sophomore  year.  He liked “the Creek,” as he called it, but “You have to be careful here, with students and with teachers. And I do hate being careful.” He smirked. I hated being careful, too—or wanted to, at least. 
LOOKING FOR ALASKA He  told  me  this  while  ripping  through  his  duffel  bag,  throwing clothes into drawers with reckless abandon. Chip did not believe in having a sock drawer or a T-shirt drawer. He believed that all draw-ers were created equal and filled each with whatever fit. My mother would have died. As soon as he finished “unpacking,” Chip hit me roughly on the shoulder, said, “I hope you’re stronger than you look,” and walked out the door, leaving it open behind him. He peeked his head back in  a  few  seconds  later  and  saw  me  standing  still.  “Well,  come  on, Miles To Go Halter. We got shit to do.” We made our way to the TV room, which according to Chip con-tained the only cable TV on campus. Over the summer, it served as a  storage  unit.  Packed  nearly  to  the  ceiling  with  couches,  fridges, and  rolled-up  carpets,  the  TV  room  undulated  with  kids  trying  to find and haul away their stuff. Chip said hello to a few people but didn’t  introduce  me.  As  he  wandered  through  the  couch-stocked maze, I stood near the room’s entrance, trying my best not to block pairs of roommates as they maneuvered furniture through the nar-row front door. It took ten minutes for Chip to find his stuff, and an hour more for  us  to  make  four  trips  back  and  forth  across  the  dorm  circle between the TV room and Room 43. By the end, I wanted to crawl into  Chip’s  minifridge  and  sleep  for  a  thousand  years,  but  Chip seemed immune to both fatigue and heatstroke. I sat down on his couch. “I  found  it  lying  on  a  curb  in  my  neighborhood  a  couple  years ago,”  he  said  of  the  couch  as  he  worked  on  setting  up  my  Play-Station  2  on  top  of  his  footlocker.  “I  know  the  leather’s  got  some cracks,  but  come  on.  That’s  a  damn  nice  couch.”  The  leather had  more  than  a  few  cracks—it  was  about  30  percent  baby  blue faux  leather  and  70  percent  foam—but  it  felt  damn  good  to  me anywa